Freshwater reservoirs play a critical role in drinking water supply, irrigation, hydropower generation, flood control, and water resource management. Monitoring changes in reservoir water levels is essential for estimating water storage, supporting reservoir operations, improving flood and drought preparedness, and understanding long-term hydrological and climate variability. One of the fundamental variables used for these applications is **Water Surface Elevation (WSE)**, which describes the height of the water surface relative to a reference surface. Changes in WSE directly reflect changes in reservoir storage and provide a fundamental indicator of the hydrological state of a reservoir over time.

The **Surface Water and Ocean Topography (SWOT)** mission, jointly developed by the **National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)** and the **Centre National d'Études Spatiales (CNES)**  is a major advancement in the remote sensing of global water bodies. This satellite mission, launched on 16th December, 2022 is designed to provide the first global inventory of Earth's freshwater storage and its changes over time. Using the **Ka-band Radar Interferometer (KaRIn)**, SWOT satellite measures WSE over lakes, rivers, reservoirs, and wetlands with two-dimensional swath observations, providing capabilities that were not available from past conventional satellite altimeters. SWOT observations are distributed through NASA Earthdata as a collection of High Rate (HR) and Low Rate (LR) science products, providing a major opportunity for large-scale inland water monitoring. 

The SWOT Level-2 High Rate Lake Single Pass (LakeSP) Vector Data Product provides data for inland lakes and reservoirs from each continent pass of high rate stream of KaRIn instrument. It is available in the form of continent wise, pass-wise granules. Within each granule, there exist geolocated observations for attributes like WSE, corresponding to multiple vectorized lake polygons observed within that pass.

Although the SWOT LakeSP product is publicly available through NASA Earthdata, generating a continuous reservoir-specific Water Surface Elevation (WSE) time series from user-supplied dam coordinates is not straightforward. For a specific reservoir of interest, the first challenge is to identify the correct LakeSP granules, within which the polygons might exist. The second challenge is in searching for the correct lake polygon inside each granule that spatially maps to our reservoir. The third challenge is the inconsistent quality of WSE observations which introduces uneven outliers and biases.

**swot-reservoir-wse** automates a complete workflow to tackle all these challenges. Starting only from the geographic coordinates of a reservoir and a user-defined observation period, the package automatically extracts the reservoir polygon footprint from JRC Global Surface Water dataset, identifies appropriate LakeSP granules from SWOT_L2_HR_LAKESP_D product using NASA CMR search, discovers intersecting SWOT lake polygons within each granule, retrieves the required observations, performs observation quality filtering, and generates a reservoir-specific Water Surface Elevation time series through a single reproducible command.
